docs/installation.rst, before:

Installation
============

Vagrant
------------

Usually it's easiest to just use the Vagrant VM. Since we use puppet in git 
submodules for easier configuration of the VM, you'll need to clone with 
``--recurse-submodules`` or run ``git submodule update --init`` after checking 
out EvaP, and of yourse you need to have Vagrant_ installed. Then you can run 
``vagrant up`` in your EvaP root directory; this builds you a fully working 
EvaP installation with PostgreSQL as database and Apache as webserver.

You can use EvaP at ``http://localhost:8000/`` on your host, write code in your
git repo, and access the VM with ``vagrant ssh``. Your git checkout is mounted
in ``/vagrant`` there.

Use ``vagrant halt`` to shutdown the VM, and ``vagrant destroy`` to delete it.

If you don't want to use Vagrant, you can use the following instructions to 
manually set up EvaP.

Filesystem Structure
--------------------

We recommend that you install the application into the directory ``/opt/evap``
according to the filesystem hierarchy standard. In the remaining steps, we will
assume that this is your installation directory.

Clone the repository or copy the files into that directory.
The installation should be correct if the settings
file has the path ``/opt/evap/evap/settings.py``. Make sure that all files and
directories are readable by the Apache web server. Additionally please make sure
that the directory ``/opt/evap/evap/upload`` is writable by the web server.

Dependencies
------------

EvaP is written in Python using the Django framework and you need at least
Python 2.6 to run it. Apart from Python and Django there are some other
dependencies that are listed in the file ``requirements.txt``. The file is
in a format that `pip <http://www.pip-installer.org/en/latest/installing.html>`_
can use to automatically install all the requirements. This can be performed on
the command line with ``pip install -r requirements.txt``.

*For Windows users:* As ``lxml`` has native code and compiling it with your
installed compiler usually fails, you need to install a precompiled package from
`lfd.uci.edu <http://www.lfd.uci.edu/~gohlke/pythonlibs/>`_.

*For Windows users:* For the compilation of translation files gettext is used.
This can be downloaded as a precompiled package from
`the GnuWin project <http://sourceforge.net/projects/gnuwin32/files/gettext/>`_.

Database Initialization
-----------------------

To initialize the database during the installation you have to perform the
following command in ``/opt/evap`` directory:

- ``python manage.py syncdb``

File Refresh
------------

You have to run some additional commands during the installation and whenever
you update EvaP. Perform these steps in the ``/opt/evap``
directory after you have upgraded the files:

- ``python manage.py migrate`` to perform any potential database updates.
- ``python manage.py collectstatic`` to collect all files that the front-end
  webserver should serve.
- ``python manage.py compilemessages`` to update the binary translation catalog.

Finally, restart the Apache web server.

Development Environment: Setup and Server Running
-------------------------------------------------

The manual creation of a superuser is just recommended for development environments.
In productive environments a Kerberos authentification system or similar should
be used.

To create a superuser perform in the ``/opt/evap`` directory the command
``python manage.py createsuperuser``.

A login in a development environment can be simulated by setting the variable
``REMOTE_USER`` to your previously created user.

The server for this environment can be started from within the ``/opt/evap``
directory with ``python manage.py runserver``.

Productive Environment: Settings
--------

The configuration of the application is done by creating a ``local_settings.py``
in the ``evap`` folder and overwriting the defaults from ``settings.py`` there.
The defaults should be OK for most development purposes.
For a production environment you should change the following settings:

- Choose an appropriate database and modify the ``default`` entry in the
  ``DATABASES`` settings. Please make sure that you use a database that
  supports transactions.
- Change the ``DEFAULT_FROM_EMAIL`` to an administrative mail address that is
  used as the sender of the mails generated by the system.
- Change ``MEDIA_ROOT`` to a directory that is writable by the web application.
  This directory will hold user-uploaded files like photos.
- You might want to change the ``SECRET_KEY``.
- Modify the ``LOGGING`` configuration so that it suits your needs.
- Finally, set ``DEBUG`` to ``False``.

Productive Environment: Apache 2 Configuration
----------------------------------------------

We recommend the following Apache configuration:

::

        WSGIScriptAlias / /opt/evap/handler.wsgi
        <Location /login>
                AuthName "Kerberos Domain Login"
                AuthType Kerberos
                KrbAuthRealms DOMAIN.EXAMPLE.COM
                KrbMethodNegotiate On
                KrbMethodK5Passwd On
                KrbVerifyKDC off

                Require valid-user
        </Location>

        Alias /static /opt/evap/evap/staticfiles
        <Location /static>
            ExpiresActive On
            ExpiresDefault "access plus 1 month"
        </Location>
        Alias /media /opt/evap/evap/upload

Productive Environment: Cron Configuration
------------------------------------------

EvaP has components which need to react to timed events.
This behavior is implemented by running two cronjobs, which in turn trigger
a management command. One should be run hourly and the other one daily

For example you could use a /etc/cron.hourly/evap like

::

    #!/bin/sh

    pushd  /opt/evap
    /usr/bin/python manage.py run_tasks
    popd

And a /etc/cron.daily/evap like

::

    #!/bin/sh

    pushd  /opt/evap
    /usr/bin/python manage.py run_tasks daily
    popd

.. _Vagrant: http://www.vagrantup.com/

Commit message:

added django_auth_kerberos as authentication backend (commented out), added instructions in the documentation

docs/installation.rst, after:

Installation
============

Vagrant
------------

Usually it's easiest to just use the Vagrant VM. Since we use puppet in git 
submodules for easier configuration of the VM, you'll need to clone with 
``--recurse-submodules`` or run ``git submodule update --init`` after checking 
out EvaP, and of yourse you need to have Vagrant_ installed. Then you can run 
``vagrant up`` in your EvaP root directory; this builds you a fully working 
EvaP installation with PostgreSQL as database and Apache as webserver.

You can use EvaP at ``http://localhost:8000/`` on your host, write code in your
git repo, and access the VM with ``vagrant ssh``. Your git checkout is mounted
in ``/vagrant`` there.

Use ``vagrant halt`` to shutdown the VM, and ``vagrant destroy`` to delete it.

If you don't want to use Vagrant, you can use the following instructions to 
manually set up EvaP.

Filesystem Structure
--------------------

We recommend that you install the application into the directory ``/opt/evap``
according to the filesystem hierarchy standard. In the remaining steps, we will
assume that this is your installation directory.

Clone the repository or copy the files into that directory.
The installation should be correct if the settings
file has the path ``/opt/evap/evap/settings.py``. Make sure that all files and
directories are readable by the Apache web server. Additionally please make sure
that the directory ``/opt/evap/evap/upload`` is writable by the web server.

Dependencies
------------

EvaP is written in Python using the Django framework and you need at least
Python 2.6 to run it. Apart from Python and Django there are some other
dependencies that are listed in the file ``requirements.txt``. The file is
in a format that `pip <http://www.pip-installer.org/en/latest/installing.html>`_
can use to automatically install all the requirements. This can be performed on
the command line with ``pip install -r requirements.txt``.

*For Windows users:* As ``lxml`` has native code and compiling it with your
installed compiler usually fails, you need to install a precompiled package from
`lfd.uci.edu <http://www.lfd.uci.edu/~gohlke/pythonlibs/>`_.

*For Windows users:* For the compilation of translation files gettext is used.
This can be downloaded as a precompiled package from
`the GnuWin project <http://sourceforge.net/projects/gnuwin32/files/gettext/>`_.

Database Initialization
-----------------------

To initialize the database during the installation you have to perform the
following command in ``/opt/evap`` directory:

- ``python manage.py syncdb``

File Refresh
------------

You have to run some additional commands during the installation and whenever
you update EvaP. Perform these steps in the ``/opt/evap``
directory after you have upgraded the files:

- ``python manage.py migrate`` to perform any potential database updates.
- ``python manage.py collectstatic`` to collect all files that the front-end
  webserver should serve.
- ``python manage.py compilemessages`` to update the binary translation catalog.

Finally, restart the Apache web server.

Development Environment: Setup and Server Running
-------------------------------------------------

The manual creation of a superuser is just recommended for development environments.
In productive environments a Kerberos authentification system or similar should
be used.

To create a superuser perform in the ``/opt/evap`` directory the command
``python manage.py createsuperuser``.

A login in a development environment can be simulated by setting the variable
``REMOTE_USER`` to your previously created user.

The server for this environment can be started from within the ``/opt/evap``
directory with ``python manage.py runserver``.

Productive Environment: Settings
--------

The configuration of the application is done by creating a ``local_settings.py``
in the ``evap`` folder and overwriting the defaults from ``settings.py`` there.
The defaults should be OK for most development purposes.
For a production environment you should change the following settings:

- Choose an appropriate database and modify the ``default`` entry in the
  ``DATABASES`` settings. Please make sure that you use a database that
  supports transactions.
- Change the ``DEFAULT_FROM_EMAIL`` to an administrative mail address that is
  used as the sender of the mails generated by the system.
- Change ``MEDIA_ROOT`` to a directory that is writable by the web application.
  This directory will hold user-uploaded files like photos.
- You might want to change the ``SECRET_KEY``.
- Modify the ``LOGGING`` configuration so that it suits your needs.
- Finally, set ``DEBUG`` to ``False``.

Productive Environment: Apache 2 Configuration
----------------------------------------------

We recommend the following Apache configuration:

::

        WSGIScriptAlias / /opt/evap/handler.wsgi

        Alias /static /opt/evap/evap/staticfiles
        <Location /static>
            ExpiresActive On
            ExpiresDefault "access plus 1 month"
        </Location>
        Alias /media /opt/evap/evap/upload

Productive Environment: Kerberos Authentication
-----------------------------------------------

EvaP is preconfigured for using Kerberos as an authentication backend. To enable this functionality you have to uncomment several lines in the ``requirements.txt`` and ``settings.py``:

- in ``requirements.txt``:

  - uncomment ``django_auth_kerberos`` and run another ``pip install -r requirements.txt`` if necessary

- in ``settings.py``:

  - in the list ``AUTHENTICATION_BACKEND``, enable ``django_auth_kerberos.backends.KrbBackend``
  - uncomment the lines ``KRB5_REALM = 'EXAMPLE.COM'`` and ``KRB5_SERVICE = 'krbtgt@AS.EXAMPLE.COM'`` and define the actual values
  - enable ``django_auth_kerberos`` in ``INSTALLED_APPS``


Productive Environment: Cron Configuration
------------------------------------------

EvaP has components which need to react to timed events.
This behavior is implemented by running two cronjobs, which in turn trigger
a management command. One should be run hourly and the other one daily

For example you could use a /etc/cron.hourly/evap like

::

    #!/bin/sh

    pushd  /opt/evap
    /usr/bin/python manage.py run_tasks
    popd

And a /etc/cron.daily/evap like

::

    #!/bin/sh

    pushd  /opt/evap
    /usr/bin/python manage.py run_tasks daily
    popd

.. _Vagrant: http://www.vagrantup.com/
